
Page
2
of 2
CIS 3200: Introduction to Algorithms (Spring ’24)
General Information
Instructor: Erik Waingarten
Office hours: Wed: 5 – 6:30 pm (right after lecture).
Please do not email me. Come talk to me before or after class.
Head TAs: Wenxi Chen (chenwx@seas.upenn.edu) and Andrew Zhen (azhen@seas.upenn.edu).
TA Staff:
Skyler Cheung (skcheung@seas.upenn.edu), May Hathaway (mayh@sas.upenn.edu), Tinatin
Kokoshvili (tinatin@seas.upenn.edu), Jason Ren (jren2@seas.upenn.edu), Andrew Zhang (zdan-
drew@seas.upenn.edu), Nicolas Menand (nmenand@seas.upenn.edu), Nathan White
(nathanlw@seas.upenn.edu), Sara Xin (sxin0612@seas.upenn.edu), Joseph Cho
(hwisang@seas.upenn.edu), Aryan Roy (aryanroy@seas.upenn.edu), Kayan Mohamed
(kayan25@seas.upenn.edu), Kaily Liu (liukaily@seas.upenn.edu), Chi Zhang (chizhg@seas.upenn.edu),
Eugene Halim (ehalim@sas.upenn.edu), Ethan Ma (ethanma@seas.upenn.edu), Cynthia Zhang
(cynzhang@wharton.upenn.edu), Sophie Courtney (sophieyl@wharton.upenn.edu), Rayan Yu
(rayanyu@seas.upenn.edu), Mark Kalaj (markkal@seas.upenn.edu), Karthik Sai Padmanabhan
(ksai@seas.upenn.edu)
Textbook: Introduction to Algorithms by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein, third edition.
Website: There is a Canvas website, as well as the following website:
https://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cis3200/current/. We will use Ed Discussions for online
clarifications related to the homeworks and other course material.
Course Organization
Homeworks and Independent Homeworks: There will be 7 regular homeworks, and 7
independent homeworks.
• The regular homeworks are collaborative assignments over a long(er) timeframe of 1-2
weeks; these will be graded for correctness.
• Independent homeworks have a short timeframe (2–3 days) and must be done completely
independently; however, these are only graded for completion (and not correctness)—it
will suffice to write something for each of the questions.
Homeworks (both regular and independent) total of 25% of the grade.
1
Midterms: Mid-Term 1 is on February 21 (W), and Mid-Term 2 is on April 3 (W). Each
midterm is worth 20% of the grade. They will be held during the class time.
Final: The final exam will be held in accordance with the schedule decided by the Penn
registrar’s office. It is worth 35% of the grade. All exams will be closed-book and closed-
notes.
Course Policies
• You are allowed (and encouraged) to collaborate on the regular homework assignments.
However, each of you must write up your own solutions independently, and
you must not share the writeups of your solutions! Please write names of all the
students with whom you collaborated on each homework writeup.
• You must typeset the regular homeworks, but may handwrite the independent
homeworks. We will provide you with Latex template for writing homework solutions.
All homeworks are to be submitted via Gradescope.
• Do not ask for extensions. You are automatically granted:
– For any two regular homeworks of your choice, you may submit up to 48 hours late
without penalty. You do not need to ask permission to use this extension.
Just indicate on the first page of your homework that you are using an extension.
– You will not receive any credit for a homework submitted more than 48 hours after
the original due date. We will close the submissions after 48 hours.
– For every additional homework submitted beyond the two allotted extensions, you
will automatically lose 25% of the points.
– Use extensions wisely. You will not obtain an extension for the end of the semester.
• No electronic devices (cellphones, laptops, tablets) during the class. The only
exception to this is if you are using a laptop or tablet for note-taking – please make sure
that your usage is strictly limited to note-taking.
• There are no make-up Midterms. If you have a medical or other emergency which
physically prevents you from taking a midterm, you may be eligible for an exception.
You must submit a Course Absence Report (CAR), and the subsequent exam (either
second Midterm or Final exam) will count as the midterm grade.
2
